#Assessment and Evaluation Distributions
A distribution defines who will complete a form, who/what the form is about, and when the form will be completed. Usually, program coordinators manage distributions of forms to cohorts of learners, faculty, event participants, etc.

In this section you'll learn:
* How to create a distribution
* How to copy a distribution
* How to manage extisting distributions (monitor completion of forms, remind people to complete forms, etc.)
* How to delete a distribution
* How to manage tasks at the individual level

#How to create a distribution
* Navigate to Admin>Assessment & Evaluation.
* Click 'Distributions'.
* Click 'Add New Distribution'.
* This will open a five-step wizard that walks you through creating a distribution.  Complete the information in each step noting the following:
**Form**
  * The distribution title will be visible to users completing the form but the description will not be.
  * Task Type: carefully review the information available by clicking on the question mark.
**Method**
  * Rotation Schedule: This option allows you to select a rotation schedule from the course selected in step one.  You can select whether to delivery the form repeatedly, once per block, or once per rotation.
  * Delegation: This option allows you select someone to delegate these tasks to others at a later date.  For example, you could set a program coordinator as the delegator for a distribution and that program coordinator could later assign specific faculty to complete certain tasks.
    * Basing a delegation on date range will allow the delegator to act during a specific window of time.
    * Basing a delegation on rotation schedule will require you to select a rotation schedule.
  * Learning Event Schedule: This option allows you to create a distribution based on the existence of specific learning event types in the schedule.  For example, if you pick Peer Teaching, any time peer teaching occurs in the schedule you can have a form sent out.
    * Release Date: Use this function to prevent the creation of tasks for long-passed events.  See the inline help for more detail.
  * Date Range: This option allows you to set a date range to make a form available.  Note that the delivery date is when emails will be sent to users.
  * Task Expiry: This defines whether and when the tasks generated by the distribution will be expire and no longer be available to users.  Tasks will expire at 12 AM on the day you select so it is best to select the date AFTER your intended expiry date.
  * Warning Notification: This defines whether and when a warning notification should be sent to users.
**Targets**
  * Targets are the people or events the form to be distributed is about.  The target options displayed will depend on what task type was selected in step one.
  * Target Attempt Options: The first option asks you to define how many times the person completing the form can assess each target (e.g., a faculty member can assess each learner once).  The second option asks you to define how many total forms the person completing the forms is expected to do (e.g., a faculty member is asked to do no fewer than 10 forms for the class of 30 learners).
  * If you use the second option, you can also define whether the person completing the form can complete multiple forms on one target.
**Assessors/Evaluators**
  * Here you can set the parameters of who will complete the distributed forms.
  * Whether the assessors/evaluators are faculty or learners you have the option to add individuals (including external assessors) as needed.
**Results** Not all of the following sections will be displayed depending on other details of the distribution.
  * In this section you can define what happens when forms are completed.
  * **Authorship**: Add additional users if you want others to be able to manage this distribution.
  * **Target Release**: Set parameters for what the targets of assessments can see about who completed forms on them, and whether targets of assessments can access reports about the results of forms completed on them.
  * **Target Self-Reporting Options**: If you have allowed targets of forms to view reports on them, this controls whether comments on the forms are anonymous or not.
  * **Reviewers**: If you require a reviewer for a distribution you are requiring that someone review all completed forms before they are released to targets.  This list of available reviewers will be restricted to %#^%#^ associated with the course the form is tied to in this distribution.
  * **Prompted Response Notifications**: When creating items, certain responses can be flagged for prompted responses.  If a form includes items with prompted responses, here you can set who is notified when any of those prompted responses are selected.

#How to copy a distribution
* Navigate to Admin>Assessment & Evaluation.
* Click 'Distributions'.
* Use the search bar to look for the distribution you want to copy.  Click the down arrow beside the search bar to apply filters to refine your search results.
* Click on the cog icon to the right of the distribution you want to copy. Select 'Copy Distribution'.
* Edit the information in each step of the distribution wizard as needed and save your work.

#How to manage distributions (monitor completion of forms, remind people to complete forms, etc.)
* Navigate to Admin>Assessment & Evaluation.
* Click 'Distributions'.
* Use the search bar to look for the distribution you want to manage.  Click the down arrow beside the search bar to apply filters to refine your search results.  You will only see distributions to which you have access.
* Click on the cog icon to the right of the distribution you want to copy. Select 'View Distribution Report'.
* Review progress.  Click on any category (Pending, In Progress, Completed) to view more details about specific targets and assessors.
* Pending tasks have not yet been started.  In Progess tasks have been started but not complete.  Completed tasks are done and have been submitted.
* To **delete tasks** tick off the box below the garbage icon on each task card and then click the red Delete Task(s) button.
* To **send reminders** to those with incomplete forms, tick off the box below the bell icon on each task card and then click the blue Manage Distribution button and select Send Reminders from the dropdown list.
* Review your choices and, if correct, click Confirm Reminders.  You will get a green success message.
* To **add a task** to a distribution, click the blue Manage Distribution button and select 'Add a Task' from the dropdown list.  Complete the required information and click 'Confirm Task'.

**Viewing progress results for learning event-based distributions: Program coordinators who set up such distributions should view progress from their My Assessments page.**

#How to delete a distribution
* Navigate to Admin>Assessment & Evaluation.
* Click 'Distributions'.
* Use the search bar to look for the distribution you want to delete.  Click the down arrow beside the search bar to apply filters to refine your search results.
* Click the checkbox beside the name of the distributions you want to delete.
* Click the red Delete Distributions button.

#How to manage tasks at the individual level
* Many of the functions described above can also be completed at an individual task level when logged into the system as a program coordinator or faculty director.
* Click the Assessment and Evaluation badge at the top right (beside the logout button).
* Click the My Learners tab.
* Click on the appropriate tab for a learner (e.g. CBME, Assessments, Logbook).
* When looking at a user's Assessment & Evaluation dashboard, some users will be able to send reminders, remove tasks, and download PDFs of selected tasks from their assigned learners or faculty.
