# Upgrading to Entrada version 1.10

### Upgrading to version 1.10 can be tricky but this guide can help you avoid and troubleshoot some problems.

There were some significant changes made to how login works. Laravel & Illuminate were introduced and a new API was built. The API handles authentication. 

You can find the new code in

```www-root/api/v2```
and
```www-root/core/api```

# .htaccess

The .htaccess file is used to configure the Apache webserver and provides some Entrada specific application configuration. We added a new rewrite rule to the .htaccess file that routes requests to ```api/v2``` to ```api/v2/index.php```. 

This routes requests to ```<your entrada URL>/api/v2``` to the code in ```www-root/api/v2/index```

You can find your .htaccess file here: ```www-root/.htaccess```

Add this rewrite rule to your .htaccess file 

```RewriteRule ^api/v2/(.*)$ api/v2/index.php/$1 [L,QSA]```

We recommend putting it at the top of the ```Default Entrada Rules``` section.

# api.log

There is a new log file called api.log. By default it is located in ```www-root/core/storage/logs```. This is where Laravel will log authentication requests and you can usually see any login errors here.

# New stuff in the storage directory

You'll notice a bunch of new folders in the storage directory. 

Make a note of this because you might have to change how you deploy your code if you changed the default storage location. The storage location is configured in the config.inc.php file. You can find it here: ```www-root/core/config```. Look for the ```entrada_storage``` element. 

# Enable Laravel debug mode

Go to ```www-root/core/api``` and create a new file called ```.env```.
Open the file, add this line, and save the file. If you are using opcache you may need to reset the opcache.
```
APP_DEBUG=true
```
With this enabled, if you go to your browser and refresh the page (```<your Entrada URL>/api/v2```), you should see lots of error messages, if any, and a stack trace.

# Common problems
After upgrading you might experience some problems. These will most likely be related to logging in. Here are some tips on how to figure out what is going on.

### You didn't update the PHP packages

Run 

```
composer update
```

### You didn't run the migrations

Run 
```
php entrada migrate --up
```

### Permissions

Make sure that apache can write to the entire storage directory. This following example bash-command will give all access rights to everything under the storage directory. You can use this for troubleshooting but you will want to limit the access to whatever meets your security needs.

```bash 
chmod -R 777 www-root/core/storage
```

### You can't login?

Point your browser to ```<your Entrada URL>/api/v2```

You probably see a big Whoops! That is Laravel telling you something is wrong. 

Check the api.log in ```www-root/core/storage/logs/api.log```. You might not see anything. That is ok. You can turn on debugging. See the ```Enable Laravel debug mode``` section.

If you have separate .htaccess files for your different environments, remember to add the re-write rule to all of them. You will need to restart apache.

### Laravel can't find bootstrap/cache?
Try clearing the cache using artisan. NOTE that this can sometimes delete all of the folders in the storage directory and you will need to get them back. Either make a backup of this folder or get them back with git.

```bash
cd www-root/core/api
sudo php artisan cache:clear
```

If you lost all of the folders in the storage directory you can try to get them back with git like this:

```bash
git reset --hard HEAD
git pull (just to make sure)
```

### Laravel can't put a file somewhere (there are a variety of these that may come up)?

Check the permissions on the storage directory (see above).







