# Upgrading to Entrada ME 1.10

This documentation will serve as a help guide for developers seeking to upgrade their institutional forks of Entrada ME to version 1.10. Most Entrada ME upgrades are relatively straightforward; however, there are a few important things to note and consider about version 1.10. This guide can help you avoid and troubleshoot some of common problems.

There were significant changes introduced to how authentication works in version 1.10. The Laravel framework was introduced to the platform and powers the new REST-based Entrada API. This Entrada API is what now handles application authentication. 

## API Filesystem Location

The Entrada API application root lives in `www-root/core/api/` and is accessed via a bootstrap at `www-root/api/v2/index.php` (or `https://entrada-1x-me.dev/api/v2`).

## Settings File Changes

The `AUTH_PRODUCTION` constant defined in `www-root/core/config/settings.inc.php` has changed to point to the new API. Make sure this is updated accordingly. It should look like this:

```
define("AUTH_PRODUCTION", ENTRADA_URL . "/api/v2/auth/login");
```

**Please Note:** Make sure this value is changed for all of your environments (i.e. `settings-staging.inc.php`, `settings-production.inc.php`, etc.).

## Apache .htaccess Changes

The `www-root/.htaccess` file in Entrada's web root is used primarily to provide _pretty urls_ served by the Apache web server. We have added a new mod_rewrite rule in Entrada ME 1.10 that routes http requests from `api/v2` to `www-root/core/api/v2/index.php` as well as provides additional authorization headers. 

The following rules should be added to your `www-root/.htacces` file:

```
	RewriteCond %{HTTP:Authorization} ^(.*)
	RewriteRule .* - [e=HTTP_AUTHORIZATION:%1]
```

```
    RewriteRule ^api/v2/(.*)$ api/v2/index.php/$1 [L,QSA]
```

The a complete and valid `.htaccess` file should look like:

```
RedirectMatch 404 /\\.git(/|$)

<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteBase /

	RewriteCond %{HTTP:Authorization} ^(.*)
	RewriteRule .* - [e=HTTP_AUTHORIZATION:%1]

	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -f [OR]
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -l [OR]
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
	RewriteRule ^.* - [L,QSA]

# Default Entrada Rules
	RewriteRule ^api/v2/(.*)$ api/v2/index.php/$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^admin/(.*)$ admin.php/$1 [L,QSA]

	RewriteRule ^community$ index.php/communities [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^community/feeds(.*)$ community/serve-feeds.php$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^community/(.*)$ community/index.php/$1 [L,QSA]

	RewriteRule ^images/dynamic/(.*)$ serve-images.php/$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^notices/(.*)$ serve-notices.php?g=$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^rss$ serve-rss.php [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^rss/(.*)$ serve-rss.php/$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^podcasts/(.*)$ serve-podcasts.php?request=$1 [L,QSA]
	RewriteRule ^calendars/(.*)$ api/calendar.api.php?request=$1 [L,QSA]

	RewriteRule ^(.*)$ index.php/$1 [L,QSA]
</IfModule>
```

**Please Note:** Make sure this is changed for all of your environments (i.e. `www-root/core/config/htaccess-staging.txt`, `www-root/core/config/htaccess-production.txt`, etc.).

## API Log File

There is a new Entrada API log file called `api.log`, which by default is located in `www-root/core/storage/logs`. This is where the Entrada API will log all authentication requests and you can usually see authentication errors logged here.

## New Storage Directories

You will notice that there are several new directories added to your `$config->entrada_storage` directory:

```
/app
/app/public
/framework
/framework/cache
/framework/cache/data
/framework/sessions
/framework/views
```

Make a note of these new directories because you might have to change how you deploy your code if you have changed the default storage location. The storage location is configured in the `www-root/core/config/config.inc.php` file. If you're using an external storage directory, you will need to create these directories manually if they do not exist.

## Enable Laravel Debug Mode

If you are having problems logging into Entrada ME 1.10 and do not see anything in the `api.log` file, you can enable debug mode within Laravel, which will force error messages to be displayed.

To enable Laravel debug mode create a new file called `.env` in `www-root/core/api` and add the following line: 

```
APP_DEBUG=true
```

Once debug mode is enabled, you should be able to see Laravel generated error messages in the browser by visiting `ENTRADA_URL/api/v2`.

## Template Changes

If you take a look at the HTML source code of Entrada ME 1.10's login page in the web browser and you do not see something that looks like the following, then you have not likely made the required changes to your institutions template files.

```
<script>
    var ENTRADA_URL = 'http://entrada-1x-me.dev'; 
    var ENTRADA_RELATIVE = ''; 
    var TEMPLATE_URL = 'http://entrada-1x-me.dev/templates/default'; 
    var TEMPLATE_RELATIVE = '/templates/default';
    var JWT = '';
    var API_URL = 'http://entrada-1x-me.dev/api/v2';
</script>
```

To make the appropriate changes to your template, we recommend using a product like Araxis Merge, Beyond Compare, or Meld to compare the `www-root/templates/default` with your institutional template in the same directory.

## Common Problems

### You did not update the required PHP packages with composer.

**Solution:** Run `composer update`


### You did not apply the database migrations.

**Solution:** Run `php entrada migrate --up`

### Apache cannot write to the new directories that were created in your storage directory.

**Solution:** This is entirely dependant on the existing permissions of your `$config->entrada_storage` directory.

If the `$config->entrada_storage` is owned by `staging` or `production` OS user account:

``` 
find www-root/core/storage -type d -exec chmod 0777 {} \;
```

If the `$config->entrada_storage` is owned by the OS user account:

```
find www-root/core/storage -type d -exec chmod 0755 {} \;
```

### The most common problem after upgrading to Entrada ME 1.10 is that you are unable to log in. You can't login?

Point your browser to `ENTRADA_URL/api/v2` and you will probably see a big *Whoops!* That is Laravel telling you something is wrong. 

Check the `api.log` in `www-root/core/storage/logs/api.log`. You might not see anything. That is ok. You can turn on debugging. To do this se the Enable Laravel Debug Mode section above.

If you have separate `.htaccess` files for your different environments, remember to add the re-write rule to all of them.

Also rember to check the settings file for your environment and make sure `AUTH_PRODUCTION` is set correctly.


### Laravel Can't Find bootstrap/cache.

Try clearing the cache using Laravel's `artisan` command. **WARNING** This can potentially delete all of the folders in the storage directory and you will need to get them back. Either make a backup of the storage folder and restore it or restore with git.

```
cd www-root/core/api
sudo php artisan cache:clear
```

### Laravel Can't Save A File.

**Solution:** Check the permissions on the storage directory (see above).

### Date and Time Formatting is Wonky.

**Solution:** You probably missed adding the new settings for date & time formatting in `www-root/core/config/settings.inc.php`.


If you have noticed anything else please add it to this documentation via a Fork and Pull-Request. I am sure there are things that I missed (MarneeDear@github).






